Build Cyber-defense Agent - CDA.
Build autonomous, artificially intelligent (AI) agent for cyber defense.
The agent should protect against malware.





The term "agent" refers to software or collection of software that resides
and operates on one or more computing devices, perceives and comprehends
its environment, and plans and executes purposeful actions on the
environment (and itself) to achieve the agent's goals.





Autonomy, complete or partial, is an important characteristic of an agent.
CDA will have to be capable of autonomous planning and execution of
complex, multi-step activities. These activities will pursue the key goal
of the agent – defeating or degrading malware while anticipating and
minimizing any resulting side effects. It will have to be capable of
adversarial reasoning to battle against thinking, adaptive malware.





A proper agent should be assigned a specific mission, with corresponding
goals and constraints. It should possess the key competencies to execute
that mission, such as the ability to perceive the environment in which the
agent is deployed, detect attacks, plan and assess the required
countermeasures, and adapt rapidly to successes or failures when executing
its plan.

The agent should be proactive and autonomous, which means it should not
rely on an external source to initiate or control its activity. On its own,
the agent should be able to assess the situation, and make decisions and
execute actions, without being controlled by another program or a human
operator. To do so, the agent typically needs a base of knowledge, memories
of what the agent has done before, and in many cases, even a degree of
self-learning from experience.

Safety is another important characteristic. The agent should not harm the
friendly systems it defends. For that, the agent should be able to
anticipate the ramifications of its actions and attempt to minimize the
risk of causing harm. In exceptional cases, considerations of safety may
require the agent to contact a remote human controller, activate a
fail-safe mode or even self-destruct when no other possibility is
available. Similarly, the agent should be trustworthy, e.g., it will not
deceive other friendly agents or human operators.

Finally, let's consider robustness and resilience to various threats and
abnormal circumstances. Doing this requires the agent to possess a means
of defending itself and recovering its own operations when degraded by a
threat.





The agent should monitor traffic and events; check packets and files;
detect malicious signatures, patterns and anomalies; and classify and
characterize what they watch.

The agent should issue alerts, stop suspicious packets and connections, and
remove or quarantine suspected malware.

The agent should plan, assess options, and execute a sophisticated,
multi-step response and recovery after a cyber attack.





The agent must be able to observe the state and activities within the
system it is asked to defend. Using these observations, CDA must be able
to diagnose the situation, understand what is happening and project the
future, i.e., the likely actions of the malware and how those actions would
affect the state of the system.


Once a plan is selected, CDA executes the actions. Some of the actions
might be benign, e.g., gathering additional information. Other actions,
however, may have destructive impacts, such as destroying, degrading or
quarantining certain software and data – autonomously – or inhibiting
certain actions of the malware. This may involve stopping or starting
certain processes, installing or reinstalling software, or initiating or
terminating connections.





THe agent should be upgradeble.


There should be a remote control center for the agent.


Use C++ for the agent and Python and LLM for the backend.


